





Curtis Pokrant – Page 4 – 009co Consulting
























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 








Author name: Curtis Pokrant



 





 
@SirPatStew #ASonnetADay dashboard  
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Javascript, Plotly, Python, Twitter API / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

Sir Patrick Stewart @SirPatStew was doing Shakespeare Sonnet readings from his home during the COVID-19 lockdown and they were really good. I wanted to track the sonnet reading tweets’ like and retweet counts over time and show this to other @SirPatStew fans. I also thought it would be very helpful to provide an automatically updated …
  @SirPatStew #ASonnetADay dashboard Read More »


 




 
The human radio-broadcast bubble  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Science / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

“Space… is big. Really big. You just won’t believe how vastly, hugely, mindbogglingly big it is” (quote from The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy) One measure of  space is the size of a “bubble” created by radio waves radiating outwards from the Earth over the past 139 years since they were first intentionally produced by …
  The human radio-broadcast bubble Read More »


 




 
Amazon AWS Transcribe used to get 2020 presidential debate #1 speaker segments  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Amazon Web Services (AWS), Plotly, Python / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

TLDR: I used Amazon Transcribe to transcribe the first presidential debate audio that included timestamps for each word, to create the following speaker timeline visualization (created using a Plotly timeline chart). Click image to view full size visualization. After watching the US 2020 Presidential Debate #1  I was curious to see if there was an …
  Amazon AWS Transcribe used to get 2020 presidential debate #1 speaker segments Read More »


 




 
D3.js SVG animation – COVID-19 rate “race” visualization  
Leave a Comment 

			 / D3.js, Javascript, Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

This visualization shows COVID-19 new cases as a “race” of dots moving from left to right. The dot’s “speed” or how long it takes to move from left to right is based on the number of cases per day. If a country has one case per day, it will take an entire day for the …
  D3.js SVG animation – COVID-19 rate “race” visualization Read More »


 




 
Amazon AWS Textract – WHO “Draft landscape of COVID-19 candidate vaccines” – convert PDF to csv  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Amazon Web Services (AWS), Python / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

TLDR: I extracted text from the WHO’s vaccine candidate PDF file using AWS Textract and made text into a set of interactive web pages . View the AWS Textract PDF extract output csv files in this Github repository and view and interact with the web pages here. The World Health Organization (WHO) maintains a regularly …
  Amazon AWS Textract – WHO “Draft landscape of COVID-19 candidate vaccines” – convert PDF to csv Read More »


 

 


Posts navigation
← Previous Page
1
…
3
4
5
…
17
Next Page →





Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top








