





How to use Hadoop HDFS as a datasource for Power BI – 009co Consulting





























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 










How to use Hadoop HDFS as a datasource for Power BI 
Leave a Comment 

			 / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			



		 /  August 16, 2018 


I have a local Hadoop server running on my Windows laptop. To connect Power BI to this Hadoop file system I used Hadoop’s WebHDFS REST API which is very well documented.
https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r1.0.4/webhdfs.html
The WebHDFS API specifies a url in which you specify the Hadoop root file system directory that you want to get files from as follows. In my case I had folder named “myhdfsfolder“:
http://localhost:50070/webhdfs/v1/myhdfsfolder?op=LISTSTATUS
The myhdfsfolder folder contained a csv file which had previously been imported into Hadoop.
In Power BI, select “Get Data”, “Other”, then “Hadoop File (HDFS)” which will pop a window that asks you to enter a url. The url requested is the WebHDFS REST API url specified above.
After entering your url and clicking ok you should see a list of objects that are in the Hadoop directory. In my case I can see my csv file along with bunch of Hadoop log files.
Since I only want the csv file, I clicked the Power BI Edit button so I could filter the list to only my csv file. This part is just standard Power BI/Power Query stuff. If you had multiple csv files, you could filter to csv file types, or some other feature of the file name, or file attribute such as create date etc.
After filtering, only the csv file I am interested in shows in the list. There is one more step to do which is also just standard Power BI/Power Query stuff. Since the file is a binary file you first need to extract its contents. To do this, select the Content column double down arrow selector. This will extract the binary file content’s into a new table which is the data you want.
Now you can continue transforming the csv file data in Power BI/Power  Query or just load the query to start using the file’s data in Power BI data modeling and reporting!




Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
  Related Posts   


 

How to create OData data source Gateway for Power BI Report

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Office 365, Power BI / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

BC Hydro’s amazing #BCStorm social media turnaround

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Power BI, Power Query, Python, Twitter API / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

OneDrive API features

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Azure, Office 365, OneDrive, Power BI, Python, Sharepoint / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Power BI Online – get data from Office 365 Sharepoint file

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Azure, Office 365, OneDrive, Power BI, Sharepoint / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 





 


Leave a Comment Cancel ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Type here..Name*
Email*
Website
 

Δ 
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.






Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top










