





Curtis Pokrant – Page 13 – 009co Consulting
























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 








Author name: Curtis Pokrant



 





 
Dell ecommerce web site scraping analysis  
1 Comment 

			 / BeautifulSoup, Python / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

Once upon a time, I needed to find Dell monitor data to analyse. A quick search brought me to their eCommerce web site which had all the monitor data I needed and all I had to do was get the data out of the website. To get the data from the website I used the Python and Python …
  Dell ecommerce web site scraping analysis Read More »


 




 
Power Query MySQL database connection  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Power Query / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

Excel Power Query can make a connection to MySQL database but requires that you have a MySQL Connector/Net 6.6.5 for Microsoft Windows. Instructions for that on Microsoft site. Once you have the connector you can get MySQL db table data into your Excel file using Power Query in two ways. The method you select will …
  Power Query MySQL database connection Read More »


 




 
How to serve multiple domain name websites with one CakePHP application  
Leave a Comment 

			 / CakePHP, MySQL / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

Say you have a need to deliver multiple websites which have same structure but each site is served on different domain names and have different content. For example, perhaps you are selling a product in many different countries and you want to have a separate website for each country. This solution allows you to use …
  How to serve multiple domain name websites with one CakePHP application Read More »


 




 
Always remember to start Python Virtualenv  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Django, Python / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

When learning to develop Django and Flask Python applications using virtual environment I did not know that I should activate the virtual environment before running the application. Well, more precisely, I did know the virtual env should be activated but rather I assumed it would be activated somehow auto-magically. I was using MS Visual Studio …
  Always remember to start Python Virtualenv Read More »


 




 
Flask SQLAlchemy relationship associations and backref  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Flask, Python, SQLAlchemy / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

Flask-SQLAlchemy relationship associations are useful to easily retrieve related records from a related Model. In a Python Flask application I wanted to use a many-to-many relationship between Photos and Tags (eg many categories assigned to one or more photos). To do this I had the following things set up in my application: 3 database tables …
  Flask SQLAlchemy relationship associations and backref Read More »


 

 


Posts navigation
← Previous Page
1
…
12
13
14
…
17
Next Page →





Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top








