





Introducing Speedvisit – a quick and easy way to record visits from people – 009co Consulting





























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 










Introducing Speedvisit – a quick and easy way to record visits from people 
Leave a Comment 

			 / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			



		 /  January 23, 2016 


Here is a demo web application / SaaS called SpeedVisit that individuals and companies can use to easily and quickly record visits from people to record basic customer demographic information.
Features include:

Groups – create a group so you add other users, locations and referrers to it.
Users – add additional users to your group as you want.
Locations – add locations where visits will take place.
Referrers – add referrers to record how visitor was referred.

The definition of ‘visit’ is pretty broad. It could be customers, co-workers, classmates, attendees in many situations including:

Retail Stores
Staff Meetings
Convenience Stores
Restaurants
Street Vendors
Art Studios
Non-Profits
Community Clubs
Sports Events
Social Events
Trade Shows

The demographic information that you can record currently includes:

Gender
Age
Zipcode or postal code
Income
Prev Visit
Referrer
Location
Purchase
Email
Comments

The site is mobile friendly responsive design so it works on phones, tablets, laptops and desktops.
The data is totally portable with easy export of all visits to csv file. It is setup with SSL so your data will be securely transferred between your browser and the server.
This is a screenshot of the top of the visit capture page which is the central feature of the application and workflow.  Simply use radio buttons and choosers to select categorize the visitor and add record. The page will then be ready for the next visitor.

 
The data is available for anyone else to view it, to view aggregated statistics, etc. This is screenshot of the recorded visit data.

You can sign into the demo account to see what sample account and visits look like too.




Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
  Related Posts   


 

Introducing Cardivvy – a website showing Car2Go real time car locations, parking and service areas

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Google Maps API, Javascript, PHP, Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Single CakePHP application & MySQL database to serve multiple domains

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / CakePHP, PHP / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Using ATMs as wifi hotspot

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

How to serve multiple domain name websites with one CakePHP application

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / CakePHP, MySQL / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 





 


Leave a Comment Cancel ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Type here..Name*
Email*
Website
 

Δ 
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.






Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top










