





How to use Python as a datasource for Power BI – 009co Consulting





























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 










How to use Python as a datasource for Power BI 
Leave a Comment 

			 / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			



		 /  August 9, 2018 


Step 1 – Download latest version of Power BI to get new features (version that came out in early August 2018)
Step  2 – Enable Python in the “Options – Preview Features” check the “Python support” option. Close and restart Power BI.
Step 3 – Click “Get Data”, select “Other” and “Python script” and click “Connect” button.
Step 4 – Write or paste Python script in the popup Python script window and click Ok button.
I chose to use Pandas to get csv file:
import numpy as np
 import pandas as pd
 data = pd.read_csv(‘C:/mydatafile.csv’, delimiter=’,’)
Note if you are using Windows as I am, you have to write file path so Windows can recognize it otherwise you will get an error. I used foreslashes but you could also escape the backslashes.
You could also write any Python script that gets or generates data from any data source eg a database, from AWS S3 buckets, etc. Of course this also includes transforming data. The important thing to note is your script must output a named dataset(s). The named dataset(s) will be thing Power BI will use when you are finished coding.
Step 5 – After clicking ok, you get the familiar Power Query data source selection window. Select Python and you will see your named data set(s). Just check the one(s) you want and click ok.
Now just continue working with Power BI as normal! You can always go back to edit the Python script by select “Source” in query editor.




Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
  Related Posts   


 

LinkedIn ‘People You May Know’ web scraping and analysis

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / BeautifulSoup, Python / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Tableau vizualization of Toronto Dine Safe data

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Geocoding, Python, Tableau / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

How to filter referral spam from Google Analytics using API and Python

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Google Analytics, Python / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

How to create OData data source Gateway for Power BI Report

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Office 365, Power BI / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 





 


Leave a Comment Cancel ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Type here..Name*
Email*
Website
 

Δ 
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.






Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top










