





Curtis Pokrant – Page 9 – 009co Consulting
























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 








Author name: Curtis Pokrant



 





 
Vultr and Digital Ocean make it easy to get projects going fast  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

Recently I developed a Django web application for a friend. I wanted to be able to get it up and out onto the internet so she could view it and get others to do user testing. Normally I host my web applications on my Webfaction account. But I wanted to keep this project separate so …
  Vultr and Digital Ocean make it easy to get projects going fast Read More »


 




 
Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal code  
10 Comments 

			 / Django, Geocoding, Python, Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

One of my Django applications includes a form where user can enter and submit a property address. The user submitting the form might not know the postal code so I left it optional. However the postal code is a key piece of information for this particular application so I wanted to ensure that I was getting it. …
  Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal code Read More »


 




 
Leaflet.js choropleth map color by count using geoJSON datasource  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Django, Geocoding, Javascript, Postgres, Python, Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

I have a Django web application that needed an interactive map with shapes corresponding to Canadian postal code FSA areas that were different colors based on how many properties were in each FSA. It ended up looking something like the screenshot below. This exercise turned out to be relatively easy using the awesome open-source Javascript …
  Leaflet.js choropleth map color by count using geoJSON datasource Read More »


 




 
Canadian Canola seed crushing more efficient at extracting canola oil  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Tableau / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

Statistics Canada regularly tweet links to various Canadian statistics. I have occasionally created quick Tableau visualizations of the data and replied with a link to my Tableau Public site. The idea is to encourage Statistics Canada to start communicating more visually and create their own visualizations for all data. Its extra work but value will …
  Canadian Canola seed crushing more efficient at extracting canola oil Read More »


 




 
Chart.js tooltip format number with commas  
7 Comments 

			 / Chart.js, Javascript / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

Chart.js V2.0 is a useful javascript charting library. It looks great, has ton of features though it is new enough that there is still some work to find out how to get some relatively simple things done. In this case I wanted to format the chart’s tooltip. Tooltips are the pop-ups that show when you hover …
  Chart.js tooltip format number with commas Read More »


 

 


Posts navigation
← Previous Page
1
…
8
9
10
…
17
Next Page →





Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top








