





Power Query MySQL database connection – 009co Consulting





























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 










Power Query MySQL database connection 
Leave a Comment 

			 / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			



		 /  January 29, 2016 


Excel Power Query can make a connection to MySQL database but requires that you have a MySQL Connector/Net 6.6.5 for Microsoft Windows. Instructions for that on Microsoft site.
Once you have the connector you can get MySQL db table data into your Excel file using Power Query in two ways. The method you select will be dependent on how you want to work with the MySQL data you retrieve.
The choice is made after you have selected Power Query – From Database – From MySQL Database.
After you select From MySQL Database, you will see the MySQL Database connection popup.
Now you can make a choice. Either method requires you to specify the Server and Database to make direct connection to a single table (or view) but you can optionally enter a SQL Statement to effectively connect to multiple tables and views in one connection. Bonus is that the SQL query is pushed back into the server so the Power Query client doesn’t have to do the work.
Method # 1. Native SQL query – when connecting you have option to enter SQL, and if you enter SQL query there you will get:

let
    Source = MySQL.Database(“127.0.0.1”, “database_name”, [Query=”select * from database_table_name”])
in
    Source

Method # 2. Power Query Navigation – instead of entering SQL, just leave that field blank, then continue on, and Power Query will present you with list of MySQL server database names (Schemas) and tables names. Simply select the “Table” link in the database and table that you want and that will add Navigation step and retrieve that table’s data.

let
    Source = MySQL.Database(“127.0.0.1”, “database_name”),
   database_table_name = Source{[Schema=”database_name”,Item=”database_table_name”]}[Data]
in
    database_table_name

Either way you get the same table results in the Power Query.
Of course, if you want to join in other tables from your MySQL database(s), then method #1 will be more direct. Method #1 also assumes that you can use SQL to get what you want from the MySQL database tables.
However, you could also use method #2 to retrieve all desired tables (even from different databases on that server), and then use Merge or Append to get the desired results.
Method #2 allows you to retrieve and work with your MySQL database table data without using SQL and rely on Excel Power Query instead. That opens the door for relatively non-technical data workers to use the data which is a pretty cool thing!
You can use these methods with MySQL databases on your local computer or on a remote computer. You just have to make sure to enter the correct server url, database name, user and password.
On occasion I have had challenges before I could get a remote MySQL database connection to work. I had to clear the Power Query cache, update Power Query, turn off the Privacy option to make the connection work.




Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
  Related Posts   


 

BC Hydro’s amazing #BCStorm social media turnaround

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Power BI, Power Query, Python, Twitter API / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








  

How to schedule Power BI dataset refresh

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Office 365, Power BI, Power Query, Sharepoint / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








  

Use Excel Power Query to scrape & combine Wikipedia tables

 
2 Comments 

			 / Power Query / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








  

Excel Power Query tutorial using Canadian potato production statistics

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Excel Pivot Chart, Excel Pivot Table, Power Query / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 





 


Leave a Comment Cancel ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Type here..Name*
Email*
Website
 

Δ 
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.






Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top










