





How to serve multiple domain name websites with one CakePHP application – 009co Consulting





























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 










How to serve multiple domain name websites with one CakePHP application 
Leave a Comment 

			 / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			



		 /  January 29, 2016 


Say you have a need to deliver multiple websites which have same structure but each site is served on different domain names and have different content.
For example, perhaps you are selling a product in many different countries and you want to have a separate website for each country.
This solution allows you to use one CakePHP application and one MySQL database to serve multiple websites each with different domain and content.
The domains need to be hosted on shared hosting which allows multiple domain hosting and allows some way of pointing multiple domains to a single application or route.
You would create your CakePHP application as normal but modify it as per this solution so that it can identify the domain the request is coming from and then serve up content for that domain only!
The modifications are summarized here and the complete PHP code is in Github:



Create a table called ‘domain’ (or whatever you want with as many columns as you need) that will hold domain specific values that are retrieved to be used in in application. At a minimum it should have the each site’s domain so you can do a lookup to match it to the domain being requested.
Add domain table foreign key (domain_id) to other tables so that they can be filtered by domain when retrieving data. (This means likely you will require additional steps to ensure that the foreign key is written to your tables. How you do that is up to you but for example if you allow users to create accounts or post comments then you can simply record the domain_id (for example you CakePHP Configure::read value when new user or comment is added.)
Create a new function  (I called min ‘getDomainSettings‘ ) in the CakePHP AppController beforeFilter section. This function will read domain name from current site visitor request and use it as parameter to filter database records to just that domain’s values. I used the built-in CakePHP Configure::write variables for these domain values that can be used throughout the CakePHP application.
Add optional conditions when retrieving model data using these CakePHP Configure:write variables in other CakePHP controllers’ to retrieve specific model records for the current domain and as well as modify view presentation based on model records. Lots of potential here, you could also swap out css styles or CakePHP themes based on domain and make sites totally different.







Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
  Related Posts   


 

Single CakePHP application & MySQL database to serve multiple domains

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / CakePHP, PHP / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Introducing Speedvisit – a quick and easy way to record visits from people

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / CakePHP, PHP, SaaS, Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Tracking Cuba Gooding Jr’s Twitter follower count

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Google Charts, MySQL, Python, Twitter API, Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 





 


Leave a Comment Cancel ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Type here..Name*
Email*
Website
 

Δ 
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.






Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top










