





Using ATMs as wifi hotspot – 009co Consulting





























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 










Using ATMs as wifi hotspot 
Leave a Comment 

			 / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			



		 /  January 29, 2016 


Wirebase was a concept created in 2001 before broadbrand, wired or wireless was widely available.


The concept was shopped around to a bunch of Vancouver area VC’s and potential investors ultimately got lost in the dot.com bubble crash.
The idea was to create ‘wirebases’ that were a modular component integrated into an automated banking machine or deployed as a stand-alone unit in a public area.
At the time I was contracting with a western Canadian credit union banking services bureau who was in the process of building its first national automated banking machine switching system so we were privy to the details of ATMs and banking machine switching. Automated banking machines have computers inside. At the time they were regular PC’s and could have peripherals connected just like any ordinary PC eg internal slots, etc.
The Wirebase set-up is illustrated in diagram below.

The Wirebase module is connected to the internet via a proprietary network solution that is similar to that used by the global ABM network.
A mobile device (Palm Pilot [LOL, remember this was 2001!!], digital camera, portable MP3 player, portable computer, etc) can connect to the Wirebase.
A copy of the website (long since gone) is maintained at the Internet Archive:
https://web.archive.org/web/20010227065841/http://wirebase.com/
Our business plan and presentation can be downloaded below:
WireBase Biz Plan Slideshow
WireBase Short Biz Plan




Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
  Related Posts   


 

Introducing Cardivvy – a website showing Car2Go real time car locations, parking and service areas

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Google Maps API, Javascript, PHP, Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Introducing Speedvisit – a quick and easy way to record visits from people

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / CakePHP, PHP, SaaS, Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Tracking Cuba Gooding Jr’s Twitter follower count

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Google Charts, MySQL, Python, Twitter API, Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Leaflet.js choropleth map color by count using geoJSON datasource

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Django, Geocoding, Javascript, Postgres, Python, Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 





 


Leave a Comment Cancel ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Type here..Name*
Email*
Website
 

Δ 
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.






Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top










