





Curtis Pokrant – Page 14 – 009co Consulting
























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 








Author name: Curtis Pokrant



 





 
Using ATMs as wifi hotspot  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

Wirebase was a concept created in 2001 before broadbrand, wired or wireless was widely available. The concept was shopped around to a bunch of Vancouver area VC’s and potential investors ultimately got lost in the dot.com bubble crash. The idea was to create ‘wirebases’ that were a modular component integrated into an automated banking machine …
  Using ATMs as wifi hotspot Read More »


 




 
Get list of custom segments from Google Analytics API  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Google Analytics, Python / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

This is a post on how to create custom Google Analytics Profile Segments for the purpose of removing referral spam (and there is increasingly soo much of it!) from GA reporting. However if you want to use these new Custom Segments to filter results using Google Analytics API with a Service Account there are some …
  Get list of custom segments from Google Analytics API Read More »


 




 
Display Django queryset results on Google Map  
4 Comments 

			 / Django, Google Maps API, Javascript / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

I wanted to be able to show locations by latitude and longitude with data from Django 1.8 website on a Google Map using the Google Maps API. I used the accepted answer from a stackoverflow question to create a Google Map with multiple markers that had the store name with a link that would open …
  Display Django queryset results on Google Map Read More »


 




 
How to setup and and use a Twitter API application  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Twitter API / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

The Twitter API allows you to read and write tweets on your own Twitter account. But you can also create an ‘app’ that can be granted permission by other Twitter accounts to access their information and even tweet on their behalf. If you have ever granted this permission you will see the app in your …
  How to setup and and use a Twitter API application Read More »


 




 
How to move Google Chart x-axis to top of chart  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Google Charts, Javascript / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

The newest Google Charts API allows you to more easily change the axis that you want the ticks and labels are on. In older version you had to create a secondary axis with dummy data and hide it showing only the axis with the real data on the where you want it (eg right side …
  How to move Google Chart x-axis to top of chart Read More »


 

 


Posts navigation
← Previous Page
1
…
13
14
15
…
17
Next Page →





Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top








