





Installing Hadoop on Windows 8.1 – 009co Consulting





























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 










Installing Hadoop on Windows 8.1 
Leave a Comment 

			 / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			



		 /  September 28, 2016 


It turned out to be quite simple to install Hadoop on Windows 8.1
I have been using Hadoop Virtual Machine images from Cloudera, Hortonworks or MapR when I wanted to work with Hadoop on my laptop. However these VMs are big files and take up precious hard drive space. So I thought I would be nice to install Hadoop on my Windows’s 8.1 laptop.

After some searches I found excellent instructions on installing Hadoop on Windows 8.1   on Mariusz Przydatek’s blog.
Note that these instructions are not for complete beginners. There are lots of assumptions that the reader understands basic Windows environment configuration, Java SDK, Java applications, and building binaries from source files. So beginners will also want to look at more detailed step by step instructions as well and use Mariusz’s instructions as a guide to make sure they are doing things correctly.
The most important thing to note is that you do not need Cygwin to install Hadoop on Windows. Other tutorials and how-to blog posts that insist Cygwin is required.
Also because you need to build Hadoop on your computer you need to have MS Visual Studio so you can use trial version as you don’t need it after you build Hadoop binaries. Other tutorials and how-to blog posts have some variation on what version of MS Visual Studio you need but this blog makes it clear.
At high level, the Hadoop installation follows these steps:

Download and extract Hadoop source files
Download and install packages and helper software
Make sure System Environment Path and Variables are correct
Make sure configuration files and package paths are ok
Execute command that uses packages and helper software to build Hadoop binaries
Copy newly created Hadoop binaries into new Hadoop production folder
Execute command to run the new Hadoop binaries
Hadoop is running and ready to be used

Its pretty obvious but worth stating again that this tutorial installs only a single node Hadoop cluster which is useful for learning and development. I quickly found out that I had to increase memory limits so it could successfully run medium sized jobs.
After Hadoop is successfully installed, you can then install Hive, Spark, and other big data ecosystem tools that work with Hadoop.
 




Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
  Related Posts   


 

How to use Hadoop HDFS as a datasource for Power BI

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Hadoop, Power BI / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 





 


Leave a Comment Cancel ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Type here..Name*
Email*
Website
 

Δ 
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.






Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top










