





Environmental Science Experience – 009co Consulting



























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 









Environmental Science Experience  

These projects were conducted between 1994 and 1999 when I was working as an environmental scientist, first at Dillon Consulting and then later on my own as a consultant. During the latter years while working on IT and data related projects, I made a transition to an IT career focusing on business intelligence, data, analytics, and reporting.
Toronto City Centre Airport, Fixed Link Bridge & Airport Expansion Studies: Assessment of Scope, Toronto
This was an independent, unsolicited review of the various environmental studies and reports prepared on behalf of the Toronto Port Authority (TPA) related to the proposed Toronto City Centre Airport (TCCA) fixed link bridge construction and enhanced airport facilities and expanded operations. The report was provided to a variety of community groups (e.g., www.communityair.org) opposing the bridge and airport expansion. The report’s objective was to provide a fair assessment as to whether or not the studies to-date supported the entire scope of the Toronto Port Authority (TPA) proposals for the Toronto City Centre Airport (TCCA) fixed link bridge construction and enhanced airport facilities and expanded operations.
Toronto Waterfront Revitalization Corporation Proposal, Toronto
This was an unsolicited proposal advocating the creation of a permanent public facility that is an interactive venue where the TWRC can provide the public with information about the TWRC’s objectives, activities and policies. Also proposed were field trips to the various sites where the TWRC is considering, planning or conducting revitalization projects. The objectives for the proposed facility and field trips was to not only educate and inform, but also to solicit and gather public input in relation to the TWRC’s activities.
World Bank Mining PASMA Environmental Baseline Study (EBS), Team Champion, Argentina
I was the champion for a team which included a mid-sized (approximately 200 employees) Canadian mining engineering consulting company and a small (approximately 20 person) Argentine engineering/environmental consulting company on bid for US$2.5m Argentine Federal Government/World Bank funded EBS related to mining activities in 3 Argentine provinces. Activities included:
• Introduced and brought the two partners together.
• Developed strategy for the bid.
• Produced the initial expression of interest for presentation to the Argentine Mining Sub-Secretary.
• Primary liaison between both companies and between the bid-team and the government.
JMB J. M. Benhanyon y Asociados SAIC – Environmental Management Consulting, Buenos Aires, Argentina
I formed a close relationship with this Argentine engineering and environmental consulting company over a 2 year period and participated in the production of several proposals and bids with JMB as an external contractor including:
• A proposal for an operational/environmental audit of a natural gas distribution system.
• An expression of interest for World Bank project to perform environmental studies as part of a large watershed project in and around the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. This included participation a mid-sized (approximately 400 person) Canadian engineering/consulting company that I represented and introduced to JMB.
ISO 14,001 Software Sales/Market Analyst, Argentina
I marketed and distributed a software package for the environmental and industrial quality control implementation made by a Canadian company to companies in Argentina. Sales efforts included mass mailings, personal presentations at trade fairs and other venues.
ICI Argentina SAIC – Environmental Management Consulting, Mendoza & Buenos Aires, Argentina
I performed an independent study for management of an Argentine subsidiary of a large UK multinational chemical company to help them develop a corporate environmental strategy. The project included onsite reviews of two processing facilities in Mendoza, Argentina and a review of a key environmental project requiring input from a regional university, and local and provincial government. I presented findings to senior management in report and oral presentations. Feedback from the company indicates that my input was critical in defining the current progressive corporate environmental strategy.
PEC Petroleum and Environment Consultants SAIC – Environmental Management Consulting, Province of Neuquen & Buenos Aires, Argentina
I participated in an operational/environmental audit of several oil exploration and production facilities in the Argentine province of Neuquen. My participation was primarily to provide PEC with input on how to develop their service offerings in area of environmental consulting. I did however participate in the audit as an environmental specialist. My findings were presented to the company president in report and oral presentations.
Fisheries Data Information System (FDIS) MS Access Data Entry Tool, British Columbia
I independently developed and marketed QA/QC and data management solutions for fisheries consultants in British Columbia related to the FDIS MS Access/Oracle data entry system. Private clients included two mid-sized Canadian engineering and environmental consulting companies. I also provided independent software reviewer services for the BC Government department developing the system on two separate occasions. These reviews occurred after software had been upgraded and entailed the critical analysis and reporting of software functionality and esthetics.
Market Analysis – Fisheries Business Development Plans in British Columbia
I initiated and performed a market analysis for new fisheries business development plans in BC for Dillon Consulting. The analysis identified potential work from government and private clients and identified present and potential competitors. The analysis also presented approximations of available total market size and potential market share for Dillon. The report was read by senior company management and ultimately resulted in the hiring of a senior fisheries biologist and 3 other biologists who have been successful in capturing the potential identified in the market analysis.
Municipality – Surrey Salmon Habitat Restoration Program (SHARP), Surrey, British Columbia
Project Coordinator for start-up of SHARP, a program that employed 12 college students and high school students during the summer on behalf of the Municipality to rehabilitate Surrey creeks and streams to benefit salmon habitat.
Municipality – Greenway Drainage Detention/Wetland, Municipality, British Columbia
Provided fisheries and wildlife expertise, as well as significant design input, for a new detention/wetland area which included the creation of almost 800 m of new creek channel.
Ministry of Transportation and Highways – Municipality By-Pass Planning Study, Municipality, British Columbia
The natural environmental sensitivities located within the study area which could potentially be impacted by the by-pass construction and operation were identified by reviewing previous investigations, local and regional designations and discussion with various Provincial and Federal environmental agencies and organizations. In addition, the impacts upon these sensitivities were assessed against many alignment options, and mitigation and compensation efforts were identified to address the potential impacts.
Ministry of Transportation and Highways – Proposed Fraser River Crossing, British Columbia
The natural environmental sensitivities associated with this proposed Fraser River crossing site which could potentially be impacted by the By-Pass construction and operation were identified by reviewing previous investigations, local and regional designations and discussion with various Provincial and Federal environmental agencies and organizations, especially FREMP. In addition, the impacts upon these sensitivities were assessed, and mitigation and compensation efforts were identified to address the potential impacts.
Municipality – Major Watershed Functional and Feasibility Study, Municipality, British Columbia
Provided fisheries expertise for this drainage study including updating previous biophysical inventories of aquatic habitat in the surface drainage features of this watershed.
Transport Canada – Environmental Audits of Abbotsford and Boundary Bay Airports, British Columbia
Addressed the natural environment components at both airports, notably the potential impacts upon fisheries habitat in a creek on Abbotsford Airport property.
DND – CFB Chilliwack Environmental Investigations, Chilliwack and Vancouver, British Columbia
Addressed the natural environment component of this study including background review and contact with Provincial and Federal government agencies to assess fisheries and wildlife on and near the airports.
Municipality Parks and Recreation – Tree Removal, Municipality British Columbia
Provided regulatory and practical guidance after the removal of a dozen large cedar trees near a sensitive, newly enhanced riparian zone constructed as part of a fisheries habitat enhancement project.
Transport Canada – Iqaluit Airport Environmental Baseline Study (EBS), Northwest Territories
Addressed the natural environment component of this EBS including background review and contact with Federal and Territorial government agencies to assess fisheries and wildlife on and near the airports.
Private Commercial Property Company – Phase I & II Environmental Assessment, Downtown Vancouver, British Columbia
Conducted site assessment of a commercial property for real estate transaction purposes including sampling of suspect asbestos, PCB and lead containing materials for laboratory analysis in addition to the historical and background research and regulatory liaison. Also coordinated the sub-surface intrusive investigation.
Transport Canada – Campbell River Airport Environmental Baseline Study (EBS), British Columbia
Addressed the natural environment component of this EBS including background review and contact with Provincial and Federal government agencies to assess fisheries and wildlife on and near the airports.
Municipality – Sub-basin Master Drainage Plan Update for Watershed Shared By Two Adjoining Municipalities, British Columbia
Reviewed and updated the aquatic habitat assessment and biophysical survey produced for major watercourse and it’s tributaries as part of the drainage planning study.
Web Engineering – River Road Culvert Replacement, Municipality, British Columbia
Provided guidelines for the replacement of a 60 m section of culvert to mitigate potential siltation of the downstream watercourse during the construction process.
Northwest Territories Power Corporation – Soil Remediation, Chesterfield Inlet, NWT
Supervised the construction of a bio-degradation pile designed to remediate 1350 cubic metres of sand, contaminated with diesel fuel. Local residents participated as labourers. The bio-pile has distinction as being among the first constructed north of 60 degrees latitude.
Municipality – Four-Lane Divided Roadway Environmental Design and Monitoring, Municipality, British Columbia
Design of environmental works to mitigate potential impacts and compensate for habitat loss of in-stream salmonid habitats due to the construction and operation of the proposed roadway. Examined the hydraulic characteristics of the impacted streams. The design of environmental works included instream enhancement structures and riparian re-vegetation schemes.
Transport Canada – Puntzi Lake Airport Environmental Investigation, Williams Lake, British Columbia
Performed background review and contact with Provincial and Federal government agencies to assess fisheries and wildlife on and near the airport. Also assisted in document collection and property ownership investigations integral to the performance of the study.
Municipality/Web Engineering – Creek Stairway System Environmental Monitoring, Municipality, British Columbia
Prepared and submitted an application for environmental review of the proposed project in a ravine containing a fish-bearing creek. Included regular environmental supervision of the construction throughout the duration of this project.
Municipality – Four-Lane Divided Roadway Phase I Environmental Audit, Municipality, British Columbia
Coordinated a Phase I Environmental Audit of the proposed roadway corridor. The audit reviewed 56 individual lots within and adjacent to the corridor to determine if the current and historical land uses and activities on the lots may have impacted the environment within the corridor. The focus of the audit was on potential impacts to worker health and safety and to the surrounding aquatic environment.
Municipality – Parking Lot Paving, Municipality, British Columbia
Coordinated the environmental review and hydrological assessment of potential impacts caused by the paving of a gravel parking lot, upon the adjacent creek.
Private Company – Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, Vancouver, British Columbia
Involved in historical and background research and regulatory liaison for this environmental audit of an industrial site.
Private Steel Manufacturer – Site Environmental Audit, North Vancouver, British Columbia
Monitored the drilling program on an industrial site during the installation of groundwater monitoring wells and the recovery of soil samples. Obtained groundwater and soil samples for laboratory analysis.
Transport Canada – Environmental Audits of Abbotsford, Boundary Bay, Pitt Meadows and Tofino Airports, British Columbia
Performed environmental audits at four airports in the B.C. Lower Mainland (primary auditor Abbotsford Airport) including a review of all existing and historical operations and the on-site use/handling of hazardous materials/chemicals. In-depth evaluation of program results and provision of recommendations in reference to Federal, Provincial and Municipal legislation and guidelines. Also addressed the natural environment components at all four airports, notably the potential impacts upon fisheries habitat in Fishtrap Creek at the Abbotsford Airport.
Municipality – Four-Lane Divided Roadway Environmental Impact Assessment, Municipality, British Columbia
Coordinated the Environmental Impact Assessment of the proposed construction of a major new roadway in Municipality, B.C. Primarily addressed the potential impacts upon raptor and great blue heron nests as well as on salmonid bearing creeks. Planned and performed field work including stream biophysical assessments and, mitigation and compensation plans for impacted habitat.
Private Gas Retailing Company – Environmental Monitoring and Remediation, British Columbia
Conducted groundwater monitoring programs and participated in remediation programs at various gas stations in the B.C. Lower Mainland.
Langley Airport – Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, Langley, British Columbia
Involved in historical and background research and regulatory liaison and brief environmental review of salmonid bearing streams on the airport grounds.
Langley Public Works Yard – Phase I & II Environmental Site Assessment, Langley, British Columbia
Involved in historical and background research and regulatory liaison. In addition, assisted with the groundwater monitoring program.
Capital Regional District (CRD) – Autoclave Sterilization Program, Victoria, British Columbia
Investigated the origin of medical waste generated in the CRD in relation to the proposed Autoclave Sterilization Program.
Transport Canada – Arctic “A” Airports Environmental Baseline Study (EBS), Northwest Territories
Addressed the natural environment component of the seven Arctic “A” airports as part of the EBS’s including background review and contact with Federal and Territorial government agencies to assess fisheries and wildlife on and near the airports.
Transport Canada – Woodtick Hill Hazard Beacon Environmental Audit, Cranbrook, British Columbia
Addressed the natural environment component, consisting of fisheries and wildlife, of the environmental audit of an airport hazard beacon site near Cranbrook, B.C. Also characterized the site using Environment Canada’s National Classification System For Contaminated Sites.
Private Steel Manufacturer – Phase I & II Environmental Site Assessment and Exit Audit, North Vancouver, British Columbia.
Involved in the site exit audit historical and background research and regulatory liaison. Also participated in the groundwater monitoring program.
Municipality – Development Traffic Study, Municipality, British Columbia
Collection of primary data for a traffic study to determine the impact of a proposed new development in Municipality, B.C.
Private Steel Manufacturer – Waste Management Amendment Act, Bill 26, British Columbia
Provided regulatory review and interpretation of the proposed regulations for Bill 26 for client. Liaised with B.C. Ministry of the Environment, Lands and Parks to obtain information regarding the proposed Waste Management Amendment Act legislation.
Manitoba Hydro – Environmental Monitoring, Manitoba
Fisheries Biology Technician for an extensive field survey of fisheries resources in a remote area of northern Manitoba as part of the Manitoba Hydro Limestone generating station. Studies included stream crossing investigations related to access roads, assessment of changes in fish populations in upstream reservoirs, life history of mainstem and tributary fish populations, and investigations of water level and flow.
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia
Performed work consisting of research, laboratory and field identification of organisms, and analytical procedures used in biological oceanography, phytology, vertebrate and invertebrate zoology, fisheries biology and salmonid aquaculture. Included a 3-day exercise in water column profiling and zooplankton sampling aboard CFAV Endeavour in Howe Sound and Indian Arm Inlet, B.C.







Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top








