





Get list of custom segments from Google Analytics API – 009co Consulting





























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 










Get list of custom segments from Google Analytics API 
Leave a Comment 

			 / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			



		 /  January 29, 2016 


This is a post on how to create custom Google Analytics Profile Segments for the purpose of removing referral spam (and there is increasingly soo much of it!) from GA reporting.
However if you want to use these new Custom Segments to filter results using  Google Analytics API with a Service Account there are some challenges.
If you are retrieving GA results for many web sites you need to get the GA API to loop through each sites’s View / Profiles in your GA Account to retrieve the data for each.
The challenge is that each Profile has its own Custom Segment. In order to filter out referral spam completely, two types of filters are required.  The ‘exclude’ filter which is same for all Profile, and the ‘include’ filter which is specific to each Profile as it refers to the Profile’s domain.
So that makes looping through each Profile a bit more challenging.  You need a dictionary of each Profile’s Custom Segment Id so it can be applied for each Profile’s data.
These Custom Segment Id’s look something like “gaid::BXxFLXZfSAeXbm4RZuFd9w”
The Custom Segment Id needs to be used in the service.data.ga().get().execute() criteria.


data = service.data().ga().get(
ids=ids,
start_date=”2015-07-01″,
end_date=”2015-07-19″,
segment: “gaid::BXxFLXZfSAeXbm4RZuFd9w”,
metrics=metrics
).execute()

It wasn’t easy to find these Custom Segment Id’s. First I tried looping through the segments() as follows:


    # Authenticate and construct service.
    service = get_service(‘analytics’, ‘v3’, scope, key_file_location,
    service_account_email)
    
    segments = service.management().segments().list().execute()
    
    for segment in segments.get(‘items’, []):
      print ‘Segment ID ‘ + segment.get(‘id’) + ” – ” + segment.get(‘name’)

But that only retrieved the Standard Google Segments, but not the Custom Segments and apparently this is not possible with a Service Account.
So I found that you are able to see the Custom Segment Ids in the https://ga-dev-tools.appspot.com/qery-explorer.
But while you can see the Custom Segments here it wasn’t very helpful as you have to go one by one in the Segments criteria field. If you have many sites it will be time consuming.
Then I finally found the “stand alone explorer” at the bottom of the GA API Segments documentation page.
https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/config/mgmt/v3/mgmtReference/management/segments/list#try-it
This outputs a json file containing all of the Segment details.  Unfortunately this isn’t useful as a ready dictionary as it only has the segment details, not the account id. But it does have the Custom Segment Ids which can be used to create manual dictionary of Account Id and Segment Id that can be used in the loop.
Perhaps it might also be possible to do a reverse lookup and find the Custom Segment Id by looping through the Segments and finding those with the name.
Hope that helps someone!




Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
  Related Posts   


 

LinkedIn ‘People You May Know’ web scraping and analysis

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / BeautifulSoup, Python / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

How a UK tent rental company used Google analytics and Tableau to improve sales

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Google Analytics, Tableau / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Tableau vizualization of Toronto Dine Safe data

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Geocoding, Python, Tableau / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

How to filter referral spam from Google Analytics using API and Python

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Google Analytics, Python / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 





 


Leave a Comment Cancel ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Type here..Name*
Email*
Website
 

Δ 
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.






Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top










