





Curtis Pokrant – Page 16 – 009co Consulting
























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 








Author name: Curtis Pokrant



 





 
Single CakePHP application & MySQL database to serve multiple domains  
Leave a Comment 

			 / CakePHP, PHP / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

I have a bunch of websites that have the same structure and content that vary only by the category for each site. So content for all sites can reside in a single database schema and filtered to specific categories for each site. In order to do this I created a custom CakePHP application with one …
  Single CakePHP application & MySQL database to serve multiple domains Read More »


 




 
How a new salmon stream was carved from the land  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Environmental science / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

Back in the days when I was working in environmental science, the consulting firm I was working for was doing storm water drainage planning in Surrey, BC, Canada. The City of Surrey was planning for a new sub-division. The new sub-division would have lots of new hardened surfaces eg roads, roofs, and lawns instead of …
  How a new salmon stream was carved from the land Read More »


 




 
Tableau vizualization of Vancouver Car2Go vehicle locations  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Tableau / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

I happened to have an dataset of Car2Go vehicle locations in Vancouver and used Tableau to plot them by latitude and longitude.     There are a lot of observations over the time data was collected. There are limited physical number of parking spots so cars are parked in locations that are very close to other car …
  Tableau vizualization of Vancouver Car2Go vehicle locations Read More »


 




 
How to vizualize a work schedule using a Qlikview Gantt chart  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Qlikview / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

This is a Qlikview solution I posted on Qlikview’s forum in response to a user request for displaying employee work schedules in a Gantt chart style presentation. https://community.qlik.com/thread/51554 The solution included setting up the data for the Qlikview chart in a table format as shown below. Original: Load WorkDate, Employee From [C:\BI\schedule demo – data.xls] …
  How to vizualize a work schedule using a Qlikview Gantt chart Read More »


 




 
How a UK tent rental company used Google analytics and Tableau to improve sales  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Google Analytics, Tableau / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

UK wedding marquee rental website Google analytics data was analysed using Tableau Public.  The client’s target geographic area is UK Northwest centered around Manchester. It was interesting to see significant number of site visitors from Pakistan, India and Phillippines. A bit of customer research reveals that these site visitors are friends and family helping with …
  How a UK tent rental company used Google analytics and Tableau to improve sales Read More »


 

 


Posts navigation
← Previous Page
1
…
15
16
17
Next Page →





Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top








