





Heat maps of Canadian activity changes due to COVID-19 using Google Community Mobility Reports – 009co Consulting





























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 










Heat maps of Canadian activity changes due to COVID-19 using Google Community Mobility Reports 
Leave a Comment 

			 / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			



		 /  April 19, 2020 


During the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic in Canada I wanted to get better understanding of the geographical distribution of COVID-19 related activity changes across Canada.
Google has helpfully provided freely available global “Community Mobility Reporting” which shows Google location history change compared to baseline by country, and country sub-regions. These provide changes in activity by location categories: Workplace, Retail & Recreation, Transit Stations, Grocery & Pharmacy and Parks locations, and Residential locations. For Canada it is available by province. As of April 19, data contained daily values from Feb 15 to Apr 11.
The Community Mobility Reporting data is available as a single csv file for all countries at Google Community Mobility Report site. In addition, Google provides feature to filter for specific country or country sub regions eg state or provinces, etc and download resulting PDF format.
As the COVID-19 lockdowns occurred across Canada you would expect that people were less likely to be in public spaces and more likely to be at home. The Community Mobility Reporting location history allows us to get some insight into whether or not this happened, and if it did, to what degree and how this changed over time.
I used the Community Mobility Report data to create a D3.js heat map visualization which is described in more detail below and in this Github repository.
I also created an Excel version of this heat map visualization using Pivot Table & Chart plus conditional formatting. This Excel file, described in more detail below, is available in the Github repository.
More detail and screenshots of visualizations is provided below:
Heatmaps
Heatmaps are grids where columns represent date and rows province/territory. Each heatmap is a grid representing a single mobility report category. The grid cell colors represent value of percent change which could be positive or negative. Changes can be observed as lockdowns occurred where locations in public areas decreased relative to baseline. Inversely, residential location increased relative to baseline as people sheltered in place at their homes.
1) Heatmap created using Excel / Power Query: For this heatmap visualization the global csv data was transformed using Excel Power Query. The Excel file has two Pivot Table and Chart combos. The Excel files and Power Query M Code are in the repository. Excel files are available in Github repository.

2) Heatmap created using D3.js: For this heatmap visualization the global csv data was transformed using Excel Power Query. The heatmap visualization was created using slightly modified code from ONSvisual.

Bar charts
These were created using Excel to visualize percent change by Province/Territory and location category using Excel / Power Query. These allow comparison between provinces by date and category. This Excel / Power Query file can be used for analytical purposes to slice and dice global data by date, country, sub region 1 & 2 and category. Excel files are available in Github repository.






Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
  Related Posts   


 

Visualizing human arterial blood flow with a D3.js Sankey chart

 
2 Comments 

			 / D3.js / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Introducing Cardivvy – a website showing Car2Go real time car locations, parking and service areas

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Google Maps API, Javascript, PHP, Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Visualization of Toronto’s 311 contact centre open data

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Excel Pivot Chart, Excel Pivot Table, Open Data / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Introducing Speedvisit – a quick and easy way to record visits from people

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / CakePHP, PHP, SaaS, Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 





 


Leave a Comment Cancel ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Type here..Name*
Email*
Website
 

Δ 
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.






Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top










