





Curtis Pokrant – Page 7 – 009co Consulting
























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 








Author name: Curtis Pokrant



 





 
AWS S3 csv file as D3 report data source  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Amazon Web Services (AWS), D3.js, Javascript, Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

This is an example of how to read a csv file retrieved from an AWS S3 bucket as a data source for a D3 javascript visualization. The D3 visualization would be an HTML document hosted on a web server.  You will use the AWS SDK to get the csv file from the S3 bucket and …
  AWS S3 csv file as D3 report data source Read More »


 




 
Introduction to Excel Power Query aka Power BI Query  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Power BI, Power Query / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

What is Power Query? Power Query is an Microsoft tool for Excel that is used to do the following: Connect to a data source Extract data from source Transform the extracted data Load the transformed data into Excel This functionality is called ETL (Extract, Transform and Load). Why use Power Query? Excel already has another …
  Introduction to Excel Power Query aka Power BI Query Read More »


 




 
AWS RDS Postgres database external secure connection  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Amazon Web Services (AWS) / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

Require an SSL Connection to a PostgreSQL DB Instance? Here are some notes from my investigations. http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/CHAP_PostgreSQL.html#PostgreSQL.Concepts.General.SSL Not great examples on that but take a look at this other documentation for secure connection to Redshift database which has working examples http://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/connecting-from-psql.html Go to EC2 Security Groups, and modify the Inbound PostgreSQL rule from the VPS …
  AWS RDS Postgres database external secure connection Read More »


 




 
How to use Hadoop HDFS as a datasource for Power BI  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Hadoop, Power BI / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

I have a local Hadoop server running on my Windows laptop. To connect Power BI to this Hadoop file system I used Hadoop’s WebHDFS REST API which is very well documented. https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r1.0.4/webhdfs.html The WebHDFS API specifies a url in which you specify the Hadoop root file system directory that you want to get files from …
  How to use Hadoop HDFS as a datasource for Power BI Read More »


 




 
How to use Python as a datasource for Power BI  
Leave a Comment 

			 / Power BI, Python / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 

Step 1 – Download latest version of Power BI to get new features (version that came out in early August 2018) Step  2 – Enable Python in the “Options – Preview Features” check the “Python support” option. Close and restart Power BI. Step 3 – Click “Get Data”, select “Other” and “Python script” and click …
  How to use Python as a datasource for Power BI Read More »


 

 


Posts navigation
← Previous Page
1
…
6
7
8
…
17
Next Page →





Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top








