





Choropleth map of Canada COVID-19 cases by health region using Leaflet and D3.js – 009co Consulting





























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 










Choropleth map of Canada COVID-19 cases by health region using Leaflet and D3.js 
Leave a Comment 

			 / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			



		 /  April 19, 2020 


During the early days of the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic in Canada, I wanted to get better understanding of the geographical distribution of COVID-19 cases across Canada.
At the time, government or news agencies were only mapping case counts by province. However Canadian provinces are so big compared to population centers that it doesn’t accurately reflect actual geographic distribution of cases. It would be better to use the provincial “health regions” which correspond much better to population centers.
So I set about to create for myself a choropleth map visualization by health regions.

View the finished choropleth map at the following link. The source data is updated daily each evening.
https://sitrucp.github.io/canada_covid_health_regions/index.html
I used Leaflet.js open-source JavaScript mapping library to create the interactive choropleth map, D3.js to retrieve and transform the csv format data, and Javascript to retrieve the JSON geographic boundary files and also to manipulate and present the data with HTML and CSS.
The COVID-19 case count data are obtained as csv file format from the “COVID-19 Canada Open Data Working Group” who are an amazing group of volunteers.  They have been tirelessly collating data from the various provincial and territory government agencies daily since early March. This group saves the collated and cleaned data as csv files in a Github repository https://github.com/ishaberry/Covid19Canada.
The health region geographical boundary descriptions are from Statistics Canada’s Statscan ArcGIS Health region boundary Canada dataset. These had very detailed boundaries so I simplified them using QGIS which also dramatically reduced the dataset size.
However, there were some data issues that needed to be addressed first. The Statscan health regions shape file boundary names are different than those used by the provincial and territory government agencies reporting the data.
The Statscan seems to have full-form “official” health region names, while the provincial and territory government agency names are common, more familar, short-hand names. Also, names appeared to have changed since they were recorded in Statscan data.
Provinces may also add or remove health regions from time to time due to administrative changes or population changes etc. So either set may have health regions that the other doesn’t have.
From a data governance perspective, in a perfect world, everyone uses a single set of health region boundary names. COVID-19 reporting has made a lot of people aware of this issue which is a silver lining in the COVID-19 dark cloud!
Addressing these name differences was actually quite simple, requiring creation of a lookup table with two columns, one for each dataset, to match the names in the boundary data files to the names in the counts data file. The lookup table can then be used dynamically when getting data each time the map is refreshed. This is described in more detail in Github repository README linked below.
Code for this project is maintained in Github:  github.com/sitrucp/canada_covid_health_regions.
I also created a separate choropleth map for Montreal, where I was living at the time, which was Canada’s COVID-19 “hotspot” with about 25-30% of Canada’s total COVID-19 cases. However, the Montreal data source has since been discontinued so the map is archived now.
View archived Montreal map here:
https://sitrucp.github.io/canada_covid_health_regions/montreal/index.html




Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
  Related Posts   


 

Visualizing human arterial blood flow with a D3.js Sankey chart

 
2 Comments 

			 / D3.js / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

LinkedIn ‘People You May Know’ web scraping and analysis

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / BeautifulSoup, Python / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Introducing Cardivvy – a website showing Car2Go real time car locations, parking and service areas

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Google Maps API, Javascript, PHP, Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Tableau vizualization of Toronto Dine Safe data

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Geocoding, Python, Tableau / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 





 


Leave a Comment Cancel ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Type here..Name*
Email*
Website
 

Δ 
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.






Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top










