





Careful! Don’t click “Try Power BI for free” – 009co Consulting





























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 










Careful! Don’t click “Try Power BI for free” 
Leave a Comment 

			 / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			



		 /  May 21, 2016 


This was a weird quirk.
I have Power BI Free account and uploaded a report to Power BI Service. The report has dataset that gets data from a Sharepoint file.
In Power BI Service I went to the dataset “Schedule Refresh”, selected “Connect Directly”, “Enter Credentials” as oAuth, then entered my Office 365 credentials. This setup the connection successfully to the Sharepoint file, and then I could switch the “Keep your data up to date” to “Yes”.
Then I accidentally clicked the “Try Pro for Free” button.
From that point on, every time I selected the Power BI Service dataset or the report, I got a pop up blocking message “To see this report upgrade to power bi pro”.

The only way to make it stop was to switch the “Keep your data up to date” to “No”.
The only Pro feature is hourly updates. The Free Power BI Service version only allows daily updates. I hadn’t selected hourly updates so that wasn’t the problem. Just some weird quirk.
The resolution was to delete the report and dataset that I just scheduled refresh for, and then upload the report again and then redo the schedule refresh as per above (without accidentally clicking on the Try Pro for free button) to make it work again.




Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
  Related Posts   


 

How to create OData data source Gateway for Power BI Report

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Office 365, Power BI / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

BC Hydro’s amazing #BCStorm social media turnaround

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Power BI, Power Query, Python, Twitter API / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

OneDrive API features

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Azure, Office 365, OneDrive, Power BI, Python, Sharepoint / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Power BI Online – get data from Office 365 Sharepoint file

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Azure, Office 365, OneDrive, Power BI, Sharepoint / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 





 


Leave a Comment Cancel ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Type here..Name*
Email*
Website
 

Δ 
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.






Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top










