





Introduction to Excel Power Query aka Power BI Query – 009co Consulting





























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 










Introduction to Excel Power Query aka Power BI Query 
Leave a Comment 

			 / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			



		 /  June 13, 2019 


What is Power Query?
Power Query is an Microsoft tool for Excel that is used to do the following:



Connect to a data source
Extract data from source
Transform the extracted data
Load the transformed data into Excel



This functionality is called ETL (Extract, Transform and Load).

Why use Power Query?
Excel already has another tab of features called Get External Data, why not use that?



Excel’s other methods for connecting to and retrieving data may still be useful, but they are not able to transform the data.
Power Query connections are non-techie, user friendly, and provide much more versatile and robust functionality.



 

Where is Power Query in Excel?
You can find Power Query in the Data tab Get & Transform icon group in Excel 2016
Note that in previous versions of Excel, Power Query is an add-in that has its own tab. However, in Excel 2016 Power Query is built into Excel.
Get & Transform has 4 icons:



Show Queries – this hides/shows the Query pane docked on right side of Excel.
New Query – choose data source & modify Power Query settings and options.
From Table – choose data source as currently selected Excel table.
Recent Sources – choose from recently selected data sources.




Step 1 – Connect to a data source and retrieve data
Select the New Query icon to select which type of data you want to connect to



FromFile (csv, Excel)
FromDatabase (SQL Server db, Access db)
FromOnline Services (Facebook)
From Other Sources (webpage, SharePoint List, ODBC connection)



Screenshot shows example of connecting to an Excel Workbook.



Select From File – From Workbook 
Popup dialogue allows you to select an Excel file.




Step 2 – Transform the data – common usage



“Calculated columns” replace any worksheet formula requirement
Power Query has many more formulas than plain old Excel, including VBA type functionality
Power Query has been called “vlookup on steroids”
“Pivot” and “unpivot” data
Group and aggregate data into sums, min, max, averages
Simple to combine many files contents in a folder into one table.
Filter, sort, replace with complex logic.
Merge two or more separate tables of data together on matching values. If you are familiar with SQL, this is a JOIN query.
Append two or more separate tables of data into one combined table of data. If you are familiar with SQL, this is a UNION query.



Step 3 – Load the data into Excel



Power Query queries are loaded to a worksheet by default.
However, you can choose to save a query as a connection only by selecting Load To – Only Create Connection. This query can be used in other Queries eg in Merge or Append, and by other Excel features eg it can be used as datasource for a Pivot Table.




Step 4 – Click and refresh to retrieve new data



When data source(s) are updated, just click Refresh to retrieve and transform new data.
No copy & paste of data from other files.
No worry about formulas being deleted or ranges being moved.
All transformations are safely contained inside the Query.




Bonus: Power Query is also in Microsoft Power BI



Power Query has been integrated into Power BI as the “Get Data” feature.
Has the same functionality and features as the Power Query in Excel.
Same programming language ‘M’.




 




Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
  Related Posts   


 

How to create OData data source Gateway for Power BI Report

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Office 365, Power BI / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

BC Hydro’s amazing #BCStorm social media turnaround

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Power BI, Power Query, Python, Twitter API / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Power Query MySQL database connection

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / Power Query / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

OneDrive API features

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Azure, Office 365, OneDrive, Power BI, Python, Sharepoint / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 





 


Leave a Comment Cancel ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Type here..Name*
Email*
Website
 

Δ 
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.






Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top










