





Tracking Cuba Gooding Jr’s Twitter follower count – 009co Consulting





























		Skip to content













					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 















Welcome to 009co Consulting
Blog Posts
COVID-19 Data Analysis and Visualization
Environmental Science Experience
 









 










					009co Consulting
				


				Business Intelligence | Analytics | Digital Solutions
			
 







Main Menu

 









COVID-19 Data Analysis and VisualizationEnvironmental Science ExperienceWelcome to 009co ConsultingBlog Posts 










Tracking Cuba Gooding Jr’s Twitter follower count 
Leave a Comment 

			 / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			



		 /  February 12, 2016 


Happened to see Cuba Gooding Jr’s first tweet about 30 minutes or so after he created it.
Update: @cubagoodingjr is no longer active so not getting tweets from it any longer
At the time his profile said he had 559 followers. A few minutes later I refreshed his profile and saw the follower count had increased to 590 and every few minutes it kept increasing. By the end of the day he had about 4,000 followers.
I thought it would be interesting to track how his follower count changed going forward. So I used the Twitter API to get his follower count once per day, save the data, and then created a web page to visualize his follower count per day.

After 2 days Cuba had about 7,000 followers which averaged out to about 175 new followers per hour.  However, the number of new followers slowed down quickly to 30 or so new followers per day and after about 3 months he only gets about 10 new followers per day.  In fact, some days, he has net loss of followers, eg more people unfollow than him, than new follows on that day.
For the technically inclined, I setup an automatic retrieval of Cuba’s Tweets using Twitter’s API and the Tweepy Python module scheduled to run daily using a cron job.
The follower counts get put into a database. I created a PHP web page application to retrieve the data from the database, and create a web page that includes the Google Charts API to create a simple line chart to show Cuba’s regularly updated follower count by day.
You can get the cron job and PHP web page code from my  Github repository.  
If you want to run this code yourself you will need a Twitter developer account and an OAuth file.




Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
  Related Posts   


 

LinkedIn ‘People You May Know’ web scraping and analysis

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / BeautifulSoup, Python / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Introducing Cardivvy – a website showing Car2Go real time car locations, parking and service areas

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Google Maps API, Javascript, PHP, Web Development / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

Tableau vizualization of Toronto Dine Safe data

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Geocoding, Python, Tableau / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 








 

How to filter referral spam from Google Analytics using API and Python

 
Leave a Comment 

			 / API, Google Analytics, Python / By  

				Curtis Pokrant			


 





 


Leave a Comment Cancel ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Type here..Name*
Email*
Website
 

Δ 
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.






Recent Blog Posts


Gestalt communication facilitated by multi-modal generative AI?


Microsoft Windows Copilot General Availability September 26, 2023


Voip.ms get all call detail records using getCDR API


OpenAI ChatGPT 4 Advanced Data Analysis used to do river water flow analysis


Attended London Power BI User Group: Introducing Fabric! – London, UK – May 23, 2023


Fabric Dataflow Gen2 Web API connection with dynamic current date parameter


Attended Data Science Festival Mayday – London, UK – May 20, 2023


CBC news article comments analysis and visualization


Canada cell tower distribution QGIS visualization


CBC news article comments web scraping


Blog Categories

AI & ML (2)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (7)

API (10)

Azure (4)

BeautifulSoup (5)

Business Intelligence (3)

CakePHP (3)

Chart.js (2)

ChatGPT (2)

D3.js (6)

Django (7)

Environmental science (3)

ERP (1)

Excel Pivot Chart (4)

Excel Pivot Table (4)

Fabric (2)

Flask (1)

Geocoding (6)

Google Adsense (1)

Google Analytics (3)

Google Calendar (1)

Google Charts (2)

Google Maps API (2)

Google Script (1)

Hadoop (2)

Javascript (14)

LLM (1)

Microsoft Copilot (1)

MS Access (1)

MySQL (2)

NetworkX (2)

NLTK (2)

Office 365 (8)

OneDrive (4)

Open Data (1)

Palm Pilot (1)

PHP (4)

Plotly (7)

Postgres (2)

Power BI (12)

Power Query (11)

Python (36)

QGIS (1)

Qlikview (1)

SaaS (1)

Science (1)

Sharepoint (6)

SQLAlchemy (1)

Tableau (6)

Twitter API (6)

VBA (1)

Web Development (14)

Xero (1)



Recent Comments
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Django forms have some complexity when first encountered. Recommend following any basic Django forms tutorial, and applying to your specific…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 30, 2021Ah yes that does help to clear it up. However, I’m facing an issue now that whenever my form is…
Curtis on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hey NS, The data is saved to database by the form post action eg starting with: if request.method == 'POST':.…
NS on Django form geocode submitted address to get lat, lon and postal codeMay 25, 2021Hi Curtis, I’m relatively new to django and I’m trying to create a Django application where i can get a…
Curtis on Legend and polygon colors for Leaflet choropleth using Chroma.jsMay 5, 2021Looks like it is working fine but my code was missing a line break at the end of if then…

Login - Copyright 2021 009co





 







Copyright © 2023 009co Consulting
 









 Scroll to Top










